docs: 📝 improve flow and narrative of config guide (#347)
seedcase-project/check-datapackage: docs/guide/config-file.qmd

the Python `Config` class used with `check()`, see
[Configuring the checks](/docs/guide/config.qmd).

A configuration file lets you set preferences once, so you don't have to
repeat them every time you run `check-datapackage check`.

> `check-datapackage` supports two configuration files: `.cdp.toml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check-datapackage` supports two configuration files: `.cdp.toml` and
```

over the configuration file.
:::

## Configurable settings

Before diving into editing your configuration, let’s see which settings
can be configured via the configuration file:

- `strict`: If `true`, include checks for Data Package properties marked
  as "SHOULD" in addition to those marked as "MUST". Defaults to
  `false`.
- `exclusions`: Exclude issues by
  [JSONPath](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html), issue type,
  or both.

Note that the positional `source` argument cannot be set via the
configuration file; it must be passed via the command line or Python
interface.

## Configuration file syntax

Both configuration files use TOML syntax. The examples below start with
`.cdp.toml`, then show the `pyproject.toml` variant. All the examples
below assume that [Soil's](https://soil.seedcase-project.org) built-in
[`simple` Data Package](https://soil.seedcase-project.org/docs/reference/example)

> exist in the current directory as `datapackage.json`, which you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
exists in the current directory as `datapackage.json`, which you can
```

> accomplish by running this code snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
below assume that a `datapackage.json` file exists in the current directory. Here, we use the [`simple` Data Package](https://soil.seedcase-project.org/docs/reference/example) example from our package [Soil](https://soil.seedcase-project.org). You can write the same content to `datapackage.json` in your current directory by running the following code snippet:
```
Maybe? :)

```{python}
#| output: false
import seedcase_soil as so
from pathlib import Path

properties = so.read_properties(so.Example.simple.address)
so.write_properties(properties, Path('datapackage.json'))
```

### Strict checking

Before creating a configuration file, we can see that the simple example
data package passes all checks:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
check-datapackage check
```

```{python}
#| echo: false
import seedcase_soil as so

so.format_output_for_docs(["cdp", "check"])
```

> Now, create a `.cdp.toml` file and enable strict checking:

Reviewer: Add what "strict" means here so it's a bit more beginner-friendly?

Author: It is explained under "Configurable settings" above. Do you think that is enough or should we repeat it somewhere here too?

``` {.toml filename=".cdp.toml"}
strict = true
```

> Now, when you run `check-datapackage check`, strict mode is enabled and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run `check-datapackage check` again, strict mode is enabled and
```
To avoid two sentences in a row starting with "now".

> the example package does not pass all the stricter checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the example package does not pass the stricter checks because the `id` property is missing:
```

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
check-datapackage check
```

```{python}
#| echo: false
config_path = Path(".cdp.toml")
config_path.write_text("""
strict = true
""")

try:
    so.format_output_for_docs(["cdp", "check"])
finally:
    config_path.unlink(missing_ok=True)
```

> This is the same as if we would have run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the same as if we had run
```

`check-datapackage check --strict` before creating the configuration
file.

If you prefer to configure `check-datapackage` via `pyproject.toml`, the
syntax is almost the same as above; the only difference is that you need
to include a heading to indicate where in the file `check-datapackage`
can find the settings. Open up your `pyproject.toml` (or create one in
the root of your project) and add a new table header

> [tool.check-datapackage]. Then put the same configuration settings as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`[tool.check-datapackage]`. Then put the same configuration settings as
```

> you used above in `.cdp.toml` below this table header.

Reviewer: Alternatively, a bit simpler:
```suggestion
can find the settings. Open up your `pyproject.toml` (or create one in
the root of your project) and add a new table header 
`[tool.check-datapackage]` with the same configuration settings as
you used above:
```

``` {.toml filename="pyproject.toml"}
[tool.check-datapackage]
strict = true
```

### Exclusions

> Above, we saw above that the simple example data package fails strict

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Above, we saw that the simple example data package fails strict
```

checking because the required `id` property is missing. To exclude only

> that issue, add an exclusion to the `.cdp.toml` file that matches both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checking because the required `id` property is missing. To exclude
that issue from the checks, we can add an exclusion to the `.cdp.toml` file that matches both
```
Maybe? :)

""")

try:
    so.format_output_for_docs(["cdp", "check"])
finally:
    config_path.unlink(missing_ok=True)
```

If you want to add different exclusions, you can keep adding more

> `[[exclusions]]` below this one.

Reviewer: Should we include an exclusion example in the `pyproject.toml` as well?

Author: Added!
